update trusted boot docs and add blog post (#168)
kairos-io/kairos-docs: content/en/docs/Installation/trustedboot.md

It is very important to preserve the keys generated in this process in a safe place. Loosing the keys will prevent you to generate new images that can be used for upgrades.
{{% /alert %}}

### Custom certificates by skipping Microsoft certificate keys

> {{% alert title="Warning" %}}

Author: @jimmykarily can you review this portion? I hope I covered almost all of it, but better double-checking

# Generate the keys
docker run -v $PWD/keys:/work/keys -ti --rm quay.io/kairos/osbuilder-tools:latest genkey "$MY_ORG" --skip-microsoft-certs-I-KNOW-WHAT-IM-DOING --expiration-in-days 365 -o /work/keys
```

### Exporting keys from BIOS/UEFI and using them

This is useful if you want to handle mass-installations where you don't want to enroll the generated keys manually in your bios/uefi.

Some hardware might require additional vendor keys, that could be e.g. used to sign additional firmware. In order to re-use the same set of keys in the machine, you can export the keys from the BIOS/UEFI and use them to generate the UKI files.

Some BIOS/UEFI allows to export the keys to USB stick directly from the BIOS/UEFI setup menu (for example [HPE](https://techlibrary.hpe.com/docs/iss/proliant-gen10-uefi/GUID-26E9F167-8061-4D85-9A0A-B610D00DFA3B.html)). If you have the keys in a USB stick, you can copy in a directory and use them to generate the UKI files.

```bash
MY_ORG="Acme Corp"
MACHINE_CERTS="$PWD/path/to/machine-certs"
# ~$ tree $PWD/path/to/machine-certs
# $PWD/path/to/machine-certs
# └── custom
#     ├── db
#     │   └── db
#     ├── dbx
#     ├── KEK
#     │   └── KEK

> #     └── PK

Reviewer: This is the directory structure in which the sbctl library expects them. `enki` accepts a directory structure of:

```
~/workspace/kairos/enki (import-custom-certs)*$ tree asus-exported-keys/
asus-exported-keys/
├── db
├── dbx
├── KEK
└── PK
```

and exports `der` versions in a directory structure like the one you have (in a temporary directory).
I did it like this because the directory strucure for the user is simpler and it was the one created by the Asus BIOS when I exported the keys.

See here: https://github.com/kairos-io/enki/pull/86/files#diff-b3cc45311045954f942496f625c5bd8fea1645ec4456a5ea3d123ed20e1dc33c

# Generate the keys
docker run -v $MACHINE_CERTS:/work/machine-keys -v $PWD/keys:/work/keys -ti --rm quay.io/kairos/osbuilder-tools:latest genkey "$MY_ORG" --custom-cert-dir /work/machine-keys --expiration-in-days 365 -o /work/keys
```

> 

Reviewer: It's worth mentioning that if the Microsoft keys were needed, the vendor would already include them so ths `--custom-cert-dir` should probably be combined with `--skip-microsoft-certs-I-KNOW-WHAT-IM-DOING` both to avoid duplicate certificates and to avoid enrolling the MS certs where they are not needed.

```

### Exporting keys from BIOS/UEFI and using them

This is useful if you want to handle mass-installations where you don't want to enroll the generated keys manually in your bios/uefi.

Some hardware might require additional vendor keys, that could be e.g. used to sign additional firmware. In order to re-use the same set of keys in the machine, you can export the keys from the BIOS/UEFI and use them to generate the UKI files.

Some BIOS/UEFI allows to export the keys to USB stick directly from the BIOS/UEFI setup menu (for example [HPE](https://techlibrary.hpe.com/docs/iss/proliant-gen10-uefi/GUID-26E9F167-8061-4D85-9A0A-B610D00DFA3B.html)). If you have the keys in a USB stick, you can copy in a directory and use them to generate the UKI files.

```bash
MY_ORG="Acme Corp"
MACHINE_CERTS="$PWD/path/to/machine-certs"
# ~$ tree $MACHINE_CERTS
# /path/to/machine-certs/
# ├── db
# ├── dbx
# ├── KEK
# └── PK

# Generate the keys
docker run -v $MACHINE_CERTS:/work/machine-keys -v $PWD/keys:/work/keys -ti --rm quay.io/kairos/osbuilder-tools:latest genkey "$MY_ORG" --custom-cert-dir /work/machine-keys --expiration-in-days 365 -o /work/keys
```

{{% alert title="Warning" %}}

> This command can be combined with the `--skip-microsoft-certs-I-KNOW-WHAT-IM-DOING` flag to avoid auto-enrolling the Microsoft keys if not needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command can be combined with the `--skip-microsoft-certs-I-KNOW-WHAT-IM-DOING` flag to avoid auto-enrolling the Microsoft keys if not needed (or already present in the "custom certs")
```

{{% /alert %}}

## Building installable medium

To build the installable medium you need to run the following commands:

{{< tabpane text=true  >}}
{{% tab header="From a container image" %}}
```bash
CONTAINER_IMAGE=quay.io/kairos/fedora:38-core-amd64-generic-{{< kairosVersion>}}-uki
docker run -ti --rm -v $PWD/build:/result -v $PWD/keys/:/keys quay.io/kairos/osbuilder-tools:latest build-uki $CONTAINER_IMAGE -t iso -d /result/ -k /keys
# to build an EFI file only
docker run -ti --rm -v $PWD/build:/result -v $PWD/keys/:/keys quay.io/kairos/osbuilder-tools:latest build-uki $CONTAINER_IMAGE -t uki -d /result/ -k /keys
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab header="From a directory" %}}
```bash
# Assuming you have a "rootfs" directory with the content of the OS
# If the image is in a directory ($PWD/rootfs) you can use the following command

> docker run -ti --rm -v $PWD/build:/result -v $PWD/rootfs:/rootfs -v $PWD/keys/:/keys quay.io/kairos/osbuilder-tools:latest build-uki dir:/rootfs/ -t iso -d /result/ -k /keys

Reviewer: Should we also document this flag here? https://github.com/kairos-io/enki/pull/87/files

Author: already documented here: https://github.com/kairos-io/kairos-docs/pull/168/files#diff-768757df5b435417f67d573865c7a3fd5a421a866a8dbf30af981778262c50b6R374

Author: or did I miss anything @jimmykarily ?

Reviewer: nope, I just missed it. All good.

# /dev/mapper/oem: LABEL="COS_OEM" UUID="d10fc63d-9387-442c-9db8-a00e081858ec" BLOCK_SIZE="1024" TYPE="ext4"

# Mount OEM
/usr/lib/systemd/systemd-cryptsetup attach oem $(findfs PARTLABEL=oem) - tpm2-device=auto
mount /dev/mapper/oem /oem

# Mount persistent
/usr/lib/systemd/systemd-cryptsetup attach persistent $(findfs PARTLABEL=persistent) - tpm2-device=auto
mount /dev/mapper/persistent /usr/local
```

To mount `/oem` and `/usr/local` after install you can also manually call `kcrypt unlock-all`. However this isn't [supported yet](https://github.com/kairos-io/kairos/issues/2217).

### Force certificates auto-enrollments

{{% alert title="Warning" %}}
Don't run auto-enrollments by default! this option is here after you are sure that the certificates generated are correct and after you have verified that manuall enrolling the certificates does not brick your device!

> This is specific for large-scale deployments to generate auto-installing ISOs that share the same hardware.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is specific for large-scale deployments to generate auto-installing ISOs that are meant to be used on similar hardware multiple times (thus the process only needs to be manually verified once).
```
